# Extended Density Matrix (EDM) method 

In arXiv: 2509.00424, we develop a EDM method to solve open quantum systems.  In this project, we illustrate how to use this method to solve the spin-boson model and Gaudin model. 

In this method, the extended density matrix tensor is represented by a matrix product state (MPS) though time-local tensors. The effect of environment is captured by the correlation tensor, which shares a matrix product operator (MPO) structure. The applying of the correlation tensor on the extended density matrix tensor follows the standard MPO-MPS algorithm (see https://tensornetwork.org/mps/algorithms/zip_up_mpo/ for detials). 

## Julia language
The code is implemented in Julia Language. Installation instructions for the Julia language can be found at: https://julialang.org/install/. The scripts require several external packages, such as LinearAlgebra and TensorOperations. These can be installed using Julia's built-in package manager; please refer to the Pkg documentation for details: https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/stdlib/Pkg/.

## spin-boson model
For the spin-boson model, all data can be generated by running the command: julia MPS-GT-HO.jl 0.1 0.01 2000 2000 80 1.0e-5 1.0 2. Here, we set the spectral parameter α=0.1, memory time K=2000 (by default, K=Nt), number of time steps Nt=2000, time step Δt=0.01, truncation precision ξ=1.0e-5, λ=1.0 (by default), and the order of the EDM method Od=2. The results are visualized using "plot.nb", a Mathematica script. All data required by "plot.nb" is included in the folder dataPlot. To execute the script, Mathematica (https://www.wolfram.com/mathematica/) is required.

## Gaudin model
For the Gaudin model, all parameters are set in parameter.jl. The data is generated by executing the command "julia MPS-EDM-HO.jl". the results are visualized with the Mathematica script Plot.nb. Please remember to import the data contained in ExactN49.nb to Plot.nb, which was obtained from the exact diagonalization method. 
